---
date: '2025-11-09T09:39:50Z'
draft: true/in AR
title: 'AR newsletter Nov9 25'
weight: 10
---
(sent nov 11. How to make AI work for you)
By now, you probably had your first encounters with AI.
What did you run into? Would love to know about that.

While I am currently on a sabbatical, these things are top of mind for me.

For me, I am focussing on two AI directions.
Given my background in cloud security, I cannot help but think about AI security and governance.

More about that later in this message.
The other thing that interests me a lot is vibe coding, agentic coding, or whatever you like to call the generation of software
from the comfort of your favorite AI tool.

I am convinced that this is the future. But it is not as simple as just throwing in some questions and hoping that the AI will read your mind.
Many people have found out the hard way that this will go off the rails really quick.

You need to bring serious structure to your development process for it to be efficient and effective.
The whole world is trying to figure out how to do that best.

I don't have the full answers, but I have had some valuable results created.
Check out my recent posts here: https://digitalinfrastructures.nl/posts.

As for governance, that is even harder.

Over the past two years I was amazed at how fast compliance frameworks, threat models, and what have you have appeared.
Much faster in fact than in the early days of cloud computing.

But in reality, I see companies having a hard time getting any of this compliance implemented, even if they throw lots of resources at it.

Things need to be simplified in order for this to work, in order for focused work on AI compliance to happen.

What do you think? Where is your bottleneck?

Oh, by the way, one more way to track what I am doing is to just engage with my [newsletter on LinkedIn](linkedin.com).

What keeps you busy today?


